.\" 
.\"
.\" activate manpage
.\" Copyright (C) 2010-2020 brokenman
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH ACTIVATE 1 "February 2026" "Porteus 5.01" "Porteus Scripts"
.SH NAME
activate \- activate Porteus modules on the fly
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B activate
[OPTIONS] [FILE OR FOLDER]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBactivate\fR script activates a Porteus \fBxzm\fR module, adding its files to the file system. It is the Porteus equivalent of "installing", though it takes only a few moments.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a short help message and exit. (The help message is also displayed when \fBactivate\fR is called with no arguments.)
.TP
\fB\-o\fR
Recurse into subfolders. Use when calling \fBactivate\fR with a folder.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Quiet mode. Disable UI messages.

.SH EXAMPLES

.B
activate module.xzm
.IP
Activates a single module in the current directory.

.PP
.B
activate module1.xzm module2.xzm module3.xzm
.IP
Activates multiple modules in the current directory.

.PP
.B
activate *.xzm
.IP
Activates all modules in the current directory.

.PP
.B
activate /path/folder_with_subfolders
.IP
Activates all modules in the given folder.

.PP
.B
activate -o /path/folder_with_subfolders
.IP
Activates all modules in the given folder and all its subfolders, recursively.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
Please report any bugs or other issues on the Porteus forums: 
.UR
https://forum.porteus.org/
.UE

.SH AUTHORS
brokenman <no email>
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
deactivate(1)

