.\" 
.\"
.\" bundles manpage
.\" Copyright (C) 2016-2020 Jay Flood, SP, Brasil
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH BUNDLES 1 "February 2026" "Porteus 5.01" "Porteus Scripts"
.SH NAME
bundles \- download Porteus bundles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bundles 
   
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbundles\fR is an interactive script that allows you to download bundles directly from the Porteus website. Bundles are optional \fBxzm\fR modules that were prepared by the Porteus developers.

.PP
When you run \fBbundles\fR, you will see a numbered list of available bundles. To download a bundle, type one of the numbers and press \fIEnter\fR.

You will then be asked to type a path to download the file to. This could be a temporary directory like \fI/tmp\fR, or your Porteus module directory, which will be something like \fI/mnt/sdb1/porteus/modules\fR.

.SH NOTES
.PP
The \fBbundles\fR script does not take any options.

This command must be run as root using \fBsu\fR or \fBsudo\fR. 

\fBbundles\fR only downloads bundles; it does not immediately activate them.

If you are using a graphical desktop environment, you might prefer to use the GUI version of the bundles tool, \fBgtk-bundles\fR.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
Please report any bugs or other issues on the Porteus forums: 
.UR
https://forum.porteus.org/
.UE

.SH AUTHORS
Jay Flood <no email>
.br

