.\" 
.\"
.\" changes-time manpage
.\" Copyright (C) 2016-2020 Jay Flood, SP, Brasil
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH CHANGES-TIME 1 "February 2026" "Porteus 5.01" "Porteus Scripts"
.SH NAME
changes-time \- copy files that have been added or modified on your system over a specified period of time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B changes-time 
   
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBchanges-time\fR is an interactive script that allows you to gather files that you have recently changed. The files are saved into a specific folder, for you to process later.

\fBchanges-time\fR may be useful, for example, if you wish to build a hardware driver or other non-packaged software into a Porteus module. You can install the software into the file system, run \fBchanges-time\fR to gather the files that the installation generated, and then use \fBdir2xzm\fR to turn the folder into a Porteus module, which can be activated when you start Porteus.

.PP
When you run \fBchanges-time\fR, you will be prompted to enter an integer number of minutes from which to collect changes. Choose a time period and press \fIEnter\fR (the default is 3).

The script will then report the folder to which your changes have been saved.

.SH NOTES
.PP
The \fBchanges-time\fR script does not take any options.

This command must be run as root. If you run it as guest, you will be prompted to enter the root password first.

\fBchanges-time\fR only moves your recently changed files to another folder; it does not assemble them into a Porteus module. You can use \fBdir2xzm\fR to make a module.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
Please report any bugs or other issues on the Porteus forums: 
.UR
https://forum.porteus.org/
.UE

.SH AUTHORS
Porteus team
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
save-session(1)

