.\" 
.\"
.\" deactivate manpage
.\" Copyright (C) 20102020 brokenman
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH DEACTIVATE 1 "February 2026" "Porteus 5.01" "Porteus Scripts"
.SH NAME
deactivate \- deactivate Porteus modules on the fly
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B deactivate
[OPTIONS] [FILE OR FOLDER]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBdeactivate\fR script activates a Porteus \fBxzm\fR module, adding its files to the file system. It is the Porteus equivalent of "installing", though it takes only a few moments.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a short help message and exit. (The help message is also displayed when \fBactivate\fR is called with no arguments.)
.TP
\fB\-o\fR
Recurse into subfolders. Use when calling \fBactivate\fR with a folder.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Quiet mode. Disable UI messages.

.SH EXAMPLES

.B
deactivate module.xzm
.IP
Deactivates a single module. The module does not need to be in the current directory; \fBdeactivate\fR will check against the list of currently activated modules.

.PP
.B
activate module1.xzm module2.xzm module3.xzm
.IP
Deactivates multiple modules.

.PP
.B
deactivate -q /path/folder_with_subfolders
.IP
Checks all modules in the given folder, and deactivates any that are currently activated.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
Please report any bugs or other issues on the Porteus forums: 
.UR
https://forum.porteus.org/
.UE

.SH AUTHORS
brokenman <no email>
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
activate(1)

