.\" 
.\"
.\" lsmodules manpage
.\" Copyright (C) 2010-2025 jssouza
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH LSMODULES 1 "February 2026" "Porteus 5.01" "Porteus Scripts"
.SH NAME
lsmodules \- manage Porteus module activation status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lsmodules 
   
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlsmodules\fR is an interactive graphical tool for activating and deactivating Porteus modules. The modules can be stored in the default Porteus module directories, or any other directory where you choose to put your additional modules.

.PP
When you run \fBlsmodules\fR, you will see a list of directories (including \fIBase\fR, \fIModules\fR, and \fIOptional\fR). Each directory contains a collapsible list of the modules available within it. Activated modules are indicated by a checkmark; deactivated modules by a cross.

Double-click any module to toggle its activation status.

There are two buttons in the top right corner:

\[bu] \fBActivate Module\fR: opens a file selection dialog. You can activate any module in your file system.
.br
\[bu] \fBAdd Modules Directory\fR: opens a directory selection dialog. The directory will be added to the list. You can change or remove your custom modules directories later by editing the file \fI~/.config/lsmodules\fR.

.SH NOTES
.PP
The \fBlsmodules\fR tool does not take any command-line options.

\fBlsmodules\fR must be run within a graphical session. It must be run as root; you will be prompted for the root password.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
Please report any bugs or other issues on the Porteus forums: 
.UR
https://forum.porteus.org/
.UE

.SH AUTHORS
jssouza <no email>
.br

