.\" 
.\"
.\" lsxzm manpage
.\" Copyright (C) 2010-2025 82issa, fanthom
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH LSXZM 1 "February 2026" "Porteus 5.01" "Porteus Scripts"
.SH NAME
lsxzm \- list the contents of Porteus modules
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lsxzm
[-?|--help|--about]
.br
.B lsxzm \fIpath_to_module\fR 
   
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBlsxzm\fR script lists the full paths of the files and directories contained in the Porteus \fBxzm\fR module at \fIpath_to_module\fR, with one path on each line. \fBlsxzm\fR uses \fBunsquashfs\fR to make the list.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-?, --help, --about\fR
Display a short help message and exit.

.SH NOTES
.PP
Only one module path should be provided.

.SH EXAMPLES

.B
lsxzm /mnt/sdb1/porteus/optional/ed-1.17-x86_64-3.xzm

.IP
Displays the paths of all files in the module \fBed-1.17-x86_64-3.xzm\fR. These files will be added to the Porteus file system if the module is activated.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
Please report any bugs or other issues on the Porteus forums: 
.UR
https://forum.porteus.org/
.UE

.SH AUTHORS
82issa <no email>, fanthom <no email>
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
dir2xzm(1), xzm2dir(1), txz2xzm(1)

