.\" 
.\"
.\" mloop manpage
.\" Copyright (C) 2010-2025 brokenman, fanthom
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH MLOOP 1 "February 2026" "Porteus 5.01" "Porteus Scripts"
.SH NAME
mloop, uloop \- Mount an archive on a loop device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mloop
\-h
.br
.B mloop
\fI/path/to/archive_file\fR
.br
.B uloop

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBmloop\fR script mounts an archive file in the directory \fI/mnt/loop/\fR. The mounted file behaves like a read-only physical device: you can read the contents, or copy them to edit elsewhere, but you cannot edit the files in place.

.PP
The \fBuloop\fR unmounts any archive file that \fBmloop\fR had mounted.

.PP
Depending on the archive type, \fBmloop\fR uses a combination of the \fBmount\fR, \fBarchivemount\fR, \fBlosetup\fR and \fBcryptsetup\fR tools to perform the mount. It ensures that a loop device is available, or creates one if needed.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Display a short help message and exit. (The help message is also displayed when \fBmloop\fR is called with no arguments.)

.SH SUPPORTED ARCHIVE FORMATS
.PP
You can mount any of the following archive files:

.PP
\[bu] Porteus module (\fB.xzm\fR)
.br
\[bu] ISO image (\fB.iso\fR)
.br
\[bu] Porteus save.dat container (\fB.dat\fR)
.br
\[bu] Raw disk image (\fB.img\fR)
.br
\[bu] initrd initial RAM disk image (\fBinitrd.xz, .initrd.zst\fR)
.br
\[bu] gzipped tarball (\fB.tar.gz\fR)
.br
\[bu] bzipped tarball (\fB.tar.bz2\fR)
.br
\[bu] Uncompressed tar archives (\fB.tar\fR)
.br
\[bu] Web mount (httpfs), where \fI/path/to/archive_file\fR is the URL of a HttpFS server

.SH NOTES
.PP
These commands must be run as root. If you run it as guest, you will be prompted to enter the root password first.

You can only mount one archive file at a time with \fBmloop\fR.

Your working directory should not be inside \fI/mnt/loop\fR when you run \fBuloop\fR.

.SH EXAMPLES

.PP
.B
mloop folder/package.tar.gz
.IP
The archive \fBpackage.tar.gz\fR is mounted on the directory \fI/mnt/loop/\fR. You can simply type \fBcd /mnt/loop\fR to go there and explore.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
Please report any bugs or other issues on the Porteus forums: 
.UR
https://forum.porteus.org/
.UE

.SH AUTHORS
brokenman <no email>, fanthom <no email>
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
activate(1), deactivate(1)

