.\" 
.\"
.\" porteus-settings-centre manpage
.\" Copyright (C) 2010-2025 Porteus team
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH PORTEUS-SETTINGS-CENTRE 1 "February 2026" "Porteus 5.01" "Porteus Scripts"
.SH NAME
porteus-settings-centre \- Launch various Porteus settings programs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B porteus-settings-centre
.br
.B gtk-update-porteus
.br
.B pinstaller
.br
.B gtk-language-selection-start
.br
.B gtk-porteus-timeconfig
.br
.B gtk-xkb-select
.br
.B gtk-soundcard-select
.br
.B gtk-bluetooth
.br
.B gtk-firewall
.br
.B gtk-password
.br
.B gtk-encrypt
.br
.B gtk-decrypt
.br
.B magic-folders
.br
.B make-changes
.br
.B save-session
.br
.B gtk-save-settings
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBporteus-settings-centre\fR tool is a graphical launcher from which you can start a number of tools which change your settings in Porteus.

.SH PROGRAMS
The Porteus settings centre can launch the following programs:

.SS Porteus Updater (gtk-update-porteus)
.IP
The update function will check for Porteus updates on the server that <b>do not</b> exist in your modules folder. You can choose the updates to download. The updated modules will be automatically moved into place upon reboot.

.SS Porteus Installer (pinstaller)
.IP
The installer will assist with installing Porteus to a fixed or removable drive. You can prepare a partition using your partition manager.

.SS Language Setup (gtk-language-selection-start)
.IP
Choose and download your chosen language file packs from the official Porteus server. Porteus provides language support for most languages.

.SS Time Config (gtk-porteus-timeconfig)
.IP
Set yout timezone and clock settings including UTC or local time. This is useful if you clock is showing incorrect time.

.SS Keyboard Settings (gtk-xkb-select)
.IP
Change the keyboard layout for your existing window manager and current session. You can also choose a variant of your layout.

.SS Sound Settings (gtk-soundcard-select)
.IP
Choose which sound card you would like to use as your default. This is useful if your system has more than one sound card

.SS Bluetooth Settings (gtk-bluetooth)
.IP
Start or Stop the Bluetooth Daemon. With the option to start at boot.

.SS Porteus Firewall(gtk-firewall)
.IP
Manage your firewall. Toggle the firewall on/off and set the desired protection level. You can also choose to activate the firewall the next time Porteus starts.

.SS Porteus Password (gtk-password)
.IP
Change your current user password.

.SS Encrypt a chosen file or folder (gtk-encrypt)
.IP
Select a file or folder and encrypt it. To decrypt the chosen file/folder you should use this tool again.

.SS Decrypt a chosen file or folder (gtk-decrypt)
.IP
Select a file or folder and decrypt it. To encrypt the chosen file/folder you should use this tool again.

.SS Porteus Magic Folders (magic-folders)
.IP
Porteus can monitor changes to a chosen folder/s and save to a file or folder on your system. Encrypted save files are supported.

.SS Save Porteus Changes (make-changes)
.IP
Save all of your Porteus changes to a file on your system or removable device. Encrypted save files are supported.

.SS Save Your Current Porteus Session (save-session)
.IP
Save your current Porteus session to a module, file or folder. Useful for setting up Porteus how you like it.

.SS Save some settings in a module (gtk-save-settings)
.IP
Save some system settings(passwords, firewall, bluetooth, timezone), that you have set using the System Settings tab, to a module.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
The Porteus settings centre has shortcuts to edit the following files in your default text editor:

.SS Porteus Cheatcodes 
.IP
Read the cheatcodes available. Read about the cheatcodes and decide which ones you want to use before adding the chosen cheats to porteus.cfg.

.SS Startup Scripts 
.IP
Run a command or a script when Porteus starts up.

.SS Edit your changes location in porteus.cfg 
.IP
Edit the location of your changes file/folder in the file <b>porteus.cfg</b> for activation during your next boot.

.SH WEBPAGES
The Porteus settings centre has shortcute to view the following webpages in your default web browser:

.SS Porteus FAQ 
.IP
Read the frequently asked questions about Porteus. For more indepth information and tutorials about Porteus you can visit the Porteus website. Stored locally at \fI/usr/doc/Porteus-FAQ/index.html\fR.

.SS Porteus Tutorials 
.IP
The Porteus website contains many useful tutorials, walkthroughs and video presentations about the inner workings of Porteus. You may also join our forums.
.UR
http://porteus.org/info/tutorials.html
.UE

.SH NOTES
.PP
Most of these commands:

.PP
\[bu] must be run as root. If you run it as guest, you will be prompted to enter the root password first.
.br
\[bu] are written to be run in an interactive graphical session.
.br
\[bu] do not take any options on the command line.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
Please report any bugs or other issues on the Porteus forums: 
.UR
https://forum.porteus.org/
.UE

.SH AUTHORS
Porteus team
.br

