.\" 
.\"
.\" psinfo manpage
.\" Copyright (C) 2010-2025 Porteus team
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH PSINFO 1 "February 2026" "Porteus 5.01" "Porteus Scripts"
.SH NAME
psinfo, xpsinfo \- scrape the system and output a text file on the desktop with sysinfo 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B psinfo

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBpsinfo\fR script creates a file at \fI/tmp/psinfo.txt\fR containing system information:

.PP
\[bu] Porteus version
.br
\[bu] Kernel and processor information
.br
\[bu] Memory usage
.br
\[bu] List of block (storage) devices 
.br
\[bu] List of partitions, and which are mounted
.br
\[bu] Porteus boot cheatcodes
.br
\[bu] debug information from \fI/var/log/porteus-livedbg\fR 
.br
\[bu] Lists of sound cards, PCI devices, USB devices
.br
\[bu] List of kernel modules enabled
.br
\[bu] Hardware info from \fIdmidecode\fR
.br
\[bu] User names in the session (probably "guest" and "root")
.br
\[bu] Last boot and uptime
.br
\[bu] Loaded modules and Slackware packages
.br
\[bu] Kernel log from \fI/var/log/messages\fR
.br
\[bu] Screen information from xrandr
.br
\[bu] Xorg logs from \fI/var/log/Xorg.0.log\fR
.br
\[bu] X session errors
.br

.PP
This information can be useful for debugging. The Porteus development team might ask you to provide the output of this file in order to troubleshoot issues.

\fBxpsinfo\fR is an interactive graphical tool, in which you can browse and selectively save the same information.

.SH NOTES
.PP
This command must be run as root. If you run it as guest, you will be prompted to enter the root password first.

The \fBpsinfo\fR script does not take any command-line options.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
Please report any bugs or other issues on the Porteus forums: 
.UR
https://forum.porteus.org/
.UE

.SH AUTHORS
Porteus team
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
porteus-settings-centre(1)

