.\" 
.\"
.\" xzm2dir manpage
.\" Copyright (C) 2010-2025 Tomas M., fanthom
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH XZM2DIR 1 "February 2026" "Porteus 5.01" "Porteus Scripts"
.SH NAME
xzm2dir \- extract a .xzm module to a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xzm2dir [\-h]
.br
.B xzm2dir
\fImodule_name\fB [\fIoutput_directory\fB|\-current]
   
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBxzm2dir\fR script extracts the contents of the Porteus \fBxzm\fR module at path \fImodule_name\fR into the directory \fIoutput_directory\fR. The extracted content may include directorys, symlinks, etc. If \fIoutput_directory\fR is not provided, or if the flag \fB-current\fR is passed in its place, then a subdirectory is created within the directory containing the module, named after the module itself, and the contents are extracted into that directory. 

.PP
\fBxzm2dir\fR uses \fBunsquashfs\fR to extract the compressed archive.
.PP
\fBxzm2dir\fR and \fBdir2xzm\fR can be used together to make changes to the contents of a module, by extracting it, modifying the contents and then re-creating it.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Display a short help message and exit. (The help message is also displayed when \fBxzm2dir\fR is called with no arguments.)
.TP
\fB\-current\fR
Extract the module into a subdirectory of the directory containing the module, named after the module.

.SH NOTES
.PP
This command must be run as root. If you run it as guest, you will be prompted to enter the root password first.

Only one module name should be given. 

.SH EXAMPLES

.PP
.B
xzm2dir module.xzm
.IP
Extract the module \fBmodule.xzm\fR, which in the current directory, into a subdirectory of the current directory called \fBmodule\fR.

.PP
.B
xzm2dir module.xzm outputFolder
.IP
Extract the module \fBmodule.xzm\fR, which in the current directory, into a subdirectory of the current directory called \fBoutputFolder\fR.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
Please report any bugs or other issues on the Porteus forums: \fIhttps://forum.porteus.org/\fR.

.SH AUTHORS
Tomas M. <no email>, fanthom <no email>
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
dir2xzm(1), lsxzm(1)

